---
comment: true
---

# Proposal 17: Additional Funding to Support and Help DBC Deploy GPU Computing Power in North America

::: tip
Reddit link: https://www.reddit.com/r/DBC_Council/comments/rmegcg/proposal_17_additional_funding_to_support_and/
:::

**Proponent：**5Fn9rNJp4rmbrffw5My84R9iPHw7KNNBYKsXy4Ev3GXVp7Wm

Date: 24/12/2021

Short description: To create the first and largest DBC Node in North America

In order to do this we have many 730R Power Edge servers which will need to have GPUs introduced so that we can bring them online

Specifications

Nvidia Cards - 3090, A10, A6000, 3080, P100
Proponent Introduction

We have a team of four at present including myself, as well as a dedicated DATA Service Center at the HUB of Florida, Tampa Bay, Where Ai and Computing, as well as cryptocurrency is creating a buzz. We want people here and in the greater states of North America to understand what it is for their company to rent Deep Brain Chains Computing Power and add to the ever growing Ai Mainnet.

My Team are as follows -

Brian - IT Engineer

Maksim - Coding and Quality Engineer

Eugene - Server and GPU Engineer

Severs DATA Center staff to ensure the continuous running of the Servers we will provide

Problem statement

The main goal for the request of support is to provide a number of servers/GPUs within the North America Region Located in the Tampa Region in Florida, soon to be the 'Hub of Ai Computing' in America. I have a Tier 3 and higher Data Server chosen and am in the process of building the first Server for this location. I would like to obtain further help/funding to provide the DBC network an additional Server/GPUs. Once the server is up and running I will reinvest earned DBC from the rewards back into buying several Servers/GPUs, thus providing further and much needed support for the North America Location. My goal is to have 1 server a month installed with a total of 12 by the end of 2022 with a total of 24 GPUs. With the support of the DBC Council we could double or triple this number, we have the team to do so.

I appreciate your time and hope to become the DBC representative for the Northern American region.
Proposal Objective/solution/s

The Mainnet is in much need of 3080 and higher cards to ensure the customers are able to participate in using the DBC Network. There is a demand and we need to provide.

1. How does the proposal change the network? How do the milestones of the project achieve the ultimate goal? List the solution and milestones to reach your goal.

- Our goal is to have 1 server a month installed with a total of 12 by the end of 2022 with a total of 24 GPUs. With the support of the DBC Council we could double or triple this number, we have the team who are ready to bring this to fruition.

2. Who does this solution help?

- Customers who are in need of much more computing power for their needs but do not have the funding present to purchase such costly systems

3. Milestones and tasks to include:

These mile stones can and will be provided in the coming week.

Please note that, upon delivery, each milestone needs a report for the Council to evaluate progress: The team and I will meet consistently and will have a member of the team report minutes of the meetings and progress reports to the Council as they happen.
Payment conditions

please specify any special conditions regarding the payment of this proposal.

What is the amount requested? 1,200,000

One payment would be acceptable at present, this would allow for us to purchase GPUs and build the servers ready for installment at the Data Center. Once this is complete we would be able to accept installments to purchase GPUs to add to the already purchased servers. If any changes we will request the council to review.

Will each milestone represent a treasury submission?

In the immediate future yes, until the earned DBC are of an amount where we can reinvest into Hardware and Data Center expenses, this will be provided in a further update.

Treasury timeline related to milestones: Each purchase of servers and cards will be reported to the council, and the DBC community and this is a celebration all should be aware of.

What is the address of the fund recipient?

5Fn9rNJp4rmbrffw5My84R9iPHw7KNNBYKsXy4Ev3GXVp7Wm

How can we contact the manager of the funds?

I have been in contact via Telegram, I can provide further contact information there.

What exchange rate are you considering?

USD - The world is not yet up to speed with crypto
Comments, Qs&As:

Please feel free to ask any further questions. The Team and I are here to represent the DBC Ai community, we are going to be successful, we are going to bring the Future to the Population...
