# 8BTC AMA

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k0OYrbubeigqUeG0acpDaBAp-Bowl-hp7LVYZSJDTgw/edit?usp=sharing

1. Can you give us a brief introduction of DeepBrain Chain project, what is the vision and mission of DBC, and what are the application scenarios? What are the differences between DBC and traditional cloud computing? What are the advantages?

DeepBrain Chain was founded in 2017 with the vision of building an infinitely scalable distributed high-performance computing network based on blockchain technology, in order to become the most important computing infrastructure in the era of 5G+AI+metaverse. DeepBrain Chain contains three important parts: high-performance computing network, blockchain mainnet and GPU computing mainnet. High-performance computing network officially launched at the end of 2018, blockchain mainnet on May 20th, 2021, after nearly 4 months of public testing, GPU computing mainnet was officially launched in November 2021.

Vision: To become the world's largest high-performance computing network and build the most important infrastructure in the 5G+AI era.
Mission: To promote universal artificial intelligence.

DeepBrain Chain has been committed to improving the ease of use of DeepBrain Chain computing network and promoting commercialization since its establishment, and has made great progress, providing high performance GPU computing power for many enterprises. The main user groups are: artificial intelligence, cloud games, visual rendering, blockchain computing. At present, nearly 50 global manufacturers have deployed GPU cloud platform based on DeepBrain Chain network, serving hundreds of enterprises and tens of thousands of AI developers.

The difference between DBC and traditional CLoud computing: DeepBrain Chain uses blockchain technology to build a new production relationship and innovatively solve the problem of computing power supply; by reconstructing the cloud computing industry chain, it turns a closed system dominated by giants like cloud computing into an open system where everyone can participate in common construction and share benefits, and jointly build the infrastructure in the era of 5G+AI.

Advantages of DBC: Due to the development of 5G+AI technology and the rise of edge computing, the demand for edge-side computing (high performance, high density, low latency, low cost and full coverage) is getting stronger and stronger, and the traditional mega data centers can no longer meet the demand of business development, and it is necessary to schedule and manage data centers of different levels (cloud nodes, metropolitan nodes and edge nodes), so it is urgent that we create an unified distributed computing network to better meet the business demand and at the same time improve the efficiency of computing resources utilization, which is where the advantages of blockchain technology lie.

2.How does DeepBrain Chain serve artificial intelligence, cloud games, visual rendering and other fields? Does DeepBrain Chain have any successful use cases in the decentralized computing space after four years of hard work? What are the advantages of DeepBrain Chain decentralized GPU computing compared with Dfinity decentralized CPU computing? Can DeepBrain Chain's decentralized GPU computing be applied to POW mechanism for mining?

The cloud computing industry chain is divided into IaaS, PaaS and SaaS layers from the bottom up. DeepBrain Chain focuses on the IaaS layer, that is, computing power layer, and provides GPU cloud computing power services by cooperating with PaaS and SaaS layer enterprises in the fields of artificial intelligence, cloud games and visual rendering, and indirectly serving enterprises in various fields. DeepBrain Chain has achieved good results in the past four years, serving tens of thousands of AI developers and hundreds of various enterprises.

DeepBrain Chain and Dfinity both belong to the decentralized computing space, but we focus on the GPU-based high-performance computing, while Dfinity is mainly CPU-based; we face completely different user scenarios, so there is no competition.
The high-performance GPU in DeepBrain Chain network can be used in many scenarios, not limited to the blockchain field. Ethereum miners can rent DeepBrain Chain's gpu to mine, but this is not necessarily cost effective. After all, AI users are willing to pay a higher rent to use GPU, so the monthly rental pricing of GPU is not low.

3.How does DeepBrain Chain combine AI and blockchain technology? What changes can it bring to the AI field?

Due to the development of 5G+AI technology and the rise of edge computing, the demand for edge-side computing (high performance, high density, low latency, low cost and full coverage) is getting stronger and stronger, and the traditional mega data centers can no longer meet the demand of business development, and it is necessary to schedule and manage data centers of different levels (cloud nodes, metropolitan nodes and edge nodes), so it is urgent that we create an unified distributed computing network to better meet the business demand and at the same time improve the efficiency of computing resources utilization, which is where the advantages of blockchain technology lie.
DeepBrain Chain integrates blockchain, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and other technologies, especially using the economic incentive of mining to attract AI enterprises (universities, developers) and miners to join DBC computing network with high-performance computing power (GPU server) to serve many scenarios that need high-performance computing power such as autonomous driving, biopharmaceuticals, artificial intelligence, cloud games, blockchain and so on, which can greatly solve the problem of expensive computing power and insufficient supply.

4.DBC builds the mainnet based on Polka Substrate, what is the reason of choosing Polka? Is it going to focus on Polka ecosystem in the future? The Ethereum ecosystem is more prosperous and the infrastructure is better, does DBC have any plan for a layout on Ethereum?

The reason for choosing Polka is that Polka supports us to do the underlying development and we can build our own chain. Our original business on NEO is supported by smart contracts, many complex functions were difficult to implement. In addition, Polka's governance mechanism is better and the ecosystem is huge, which has integration point with our business.
At present, we are observing the formal operation of decentralized exchange in the Polka ecosystem, and we will access it once there is a decentralized exchange running safely and stably. DeepBrain Chain does not combine with Defi in the computing power itself, but users of DeepBrain Chain's computing power need to use DBC token in order to rent GPU computing power, and if users do not have DBC, they can go to the relevant Defi project to pledge assets to borrow DBC.

5.I would like to ask the guests to talk about the current situation of the cloud computing market and what pain points exist? What changes can DeepBrain Chain bring to the industry? And what are the advantages compared with other cloud computing service providers? Can you give us an example? Another question is what is the main role of DBC tokens in DeepBrain Chain and what is the intrinsic value of DBC tokens? Are there any special features in the economic design of DeepBrain Chain?

Due to the development of 5G+AI technology and the rise of edge computing, the demand for edge-side computing (high performance, high density, low latency, low cost and full coverage) is getting stronger and stronger, and the traditional mega data centers can no longer meet the demand of business development, and it is necessary to schedule and manage data centers of different levels (cloud nodes, metropolitan nodes and edge nodes), so it is urgent that we create an unified distributed computing network to better meet the business demand and at the same time improve the efficiency of computing resources utilization, which is where the advantages of blockchain technology lie.
DeepBrain Chain uses blockchain technology to build a new production relationship and innovatively solve the problem of computing power supply; by reconstructing the cloud computing industry chain, it turns a closed system dominated by giants like cloud computing into an open system where everyone can participate in common construction and share benefits, and jointly build the infrastructure in the era of 5G+AI.
The cost of computing power inside the DeepBrain Chain has a price advantage compared to traditional cloud computing, this is mainly determined by the business model and economic model. Decentralized supply + idle resources + economic incentives can greatly solve the supply chain problem, which in turn makes the cost of using computing power for artificial intelligence enterprises lower.
DBC is the only token in circulation in the whole system. Regarding the intrinsic value of DBC tokens and the design of the economic model, they have been answered in previous question.

6.DeepBrain Chain is decentralized GPU computing, but in the cryptocurrency space we are only familiar with decentralized storage, such as Filecoin, BTT, etc. What exactly is decentralized GPU computing? What can it be used for? Secondly, how can DeepBrain Chain achieve cost advantage in decentralized GPU computing? Third, who are the participants in the DeepBrain ecosystem and how do you incentivize users to join the DBC network?

(6.1) Distributed storage and distributed computing are both relative to centralized storage and computing, due to the development of 5G+AI technology and the rise of edge computing, the demand for edge-side computing (high performance, high density, low latency, low cost and full coverage) is getting stronger and stronger, and the traditional mega data centers can no longer meet the demand of business development, and it is necessary to schedule and manage data centers of different levels (cloud nodes, metropolitan nodes and edge nodes), so it is urgent that we create an unified distributed computing network to better meet the business demand and at the same time improve the efficiency of computing resources utilization, which is where the advantages of blockchain technology lie.
DeepBrain Chain integrates blockchain, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and other technologies, especially using the economic incentive of mining to attract AI enterprises (universities, developers) and miners to join DBC computing network with high-performance computing power (GPU server) to serve many scenarios that need high-performance computing power such as autonomous driving, biopharmaceuticals, artificial intelligence, cloud games, blockchain and so on.
(6.2) Compared to traditional cloud computing's heavy asset operation, DeepBrain Chain's operation model is lighter and can aggregate idle GPU computing resources in the society; at the same time, DeepBrain Chain's token economic model incentivizes that the pricing of computing power inside DeepBrain Chain will be much lower than that of traditional cloud computing.
(6.3) The vision of DeepBrain Chain is to build the world's largest distributed high-performance computing network, which is essentially using blockchain technology to build the next-generation cloud computing industry. Therefore, there are several especially important roles in the ecosystem of DeepBrain Chain: the computing power suppliers, the product technology R&D system, and the computing power demand side.
The supply side of computing power is mainly: miners, mining pools, mining machine brands, etc.; product technology R&D: computing power network, cloud platform, main chain R&D, etc., mainly the foundation and technology developer ecosystem; demand side of computing power: mainly many GPU cloud platforms, computing power sales agents, enterprises, etc.
For ordinary investors, they can choose their appropriate roles to play in order to participate.

7.The original DBC was developed on Neo, but now it has switched to Polka ecosystem. What advantages do you think Polka has over Neo? Secondly, decentralization usually lacks efficiency compared to centralized platforms. For example, the cost of decentralized storage will generally be higher than centralized cloud storage platforms. What are the advantages of your project as a decentralized project compared to an efficient centralized platform? Third, how does DBC, as a decentralized and anonymous platform, combat fraud? For example, the computing power provider cannot provide honest service or the computing power buyer falsely accuses the computing power provider. Is a very centralized arbitration body needed to combat fraud?

(7.1)The reason for choosing Polka is that Polka supports us to do the underlying development and we can build our own chain. Our original business on NEO is supported by smart contracts, many complex functions were difficult to implement. In addition, Polka's governance mechanism is better and the ecosystem is huge, which has integration point with our business.
At present, we are observing the formal operation of decentralized exchange in the Polka ecosystem, and we will access it once there is a decentralized exchange running safely and stably. DeepBrain Chain does not combine with Defi in the computing power itself, but users of DeepBrain Chain's computing power need to use DBC token in order to rent GPU computing power, and if users do not have DBC, they can go to the relevant Defi project to pledge assets to borrow DBC.
(7.2) On the contrary, the decentralized platform is more efficient, for example, filecoin's storage capacity has reached 4EB in half a year, which is close to the storage quantity of Ali cloud that has been developed for 10 years. The essence of DeepBrain Chain is to aggregate social resources together to do cloud computing, which is a scale business. The strength of a single enterprise, however strong, is limited. Ethereum can aggregate millions of 3080 computing power in a short time, and it is difficult for traditional Internet enterprises to do this by themselves alone.
(7.3) The GPU in DeepBrain Chain needs to pledge a certain number of DBC token to get online rewards, and if the machine is rented you can get more rewards. Each machine online will be verified by the program automation, and there are also community elected auditors to verify the orders in a decentralized way. Once a machine has cheated it will automatically be randomly entered into arbitration, which is also a decentralized mechanism, similar to Filecoin's valid data verification mechanism. Computing power providers who fail to provide honest services will be verified and their pledged DBC tokens will be deducted, and the loss will be very huge. If a computing power buyer reports a computing power provider, first DBC tokens will be pledged, and the pledged DBC will be given back once the report is confirmed to be a false accusation.

8.One of the use cases of decentralized GPU computing in DeepBrain Chain is visual rendering. I remember that in the production of 3D movie Avatar, thousands of servers were used for visual rendering and it took a long time to finish, which was time-consuming, laborious, costly and inefficient. Nowadays, Hollywood blockbusters have special rendering farms for visual rendering, but they are implemented by centralized server clusters. Is there a gap between the visual rendering and the rendering farm? Can DBC meet the visual rendering requirements of Hollywood blockbusters such as Avatar? What are the advantages of visual rendering compared with rendering farms? Also, is DeepBrain Chain and Visual Farm in visual rendering a direct business competition? Or is it a complementary business relationship that can provide decentralized GPU computing support for visual rendering farms?

DeepBrain Chain does not engage in rendering business itself, DeepBrain Chain provides GPU computing resources to visual rendering technology solution providers; DeepBrain Chain focuses on the underlying computing power supply, mainly serving PaaS/SaaS layer platforms, not involving in specific business directions, all rendering farms that need a lot of GPU computing power can not purchase a lot of GPU servers by themselves, but they can directly rent the GPU resources in the DBC network.

9.May I ask how DeepBrain Chain integrates the network computing power? In what way can users access it?

You can download the software on DeepBrain Chain github and join DeepBrain Chain computing network by yourself.

10.Deep Brain Chain (DBC) minted a batch of NFT commemorative coins to give to the community for free to reward the community members who made outstanding contributions to the DeepBrain Chain community, please tell us about: 1.How many coins are minted ? 2.What rights and interests do the holders of the commemorative coins enjoy? 3.What is the progress so far?

DBC mainnet NFT commemoration coin is the highest honor of DeepBrain Chain community, which is used to reward community members who have made outstanding contributions to the DBC community and will only be issued once. The Foundation will give them away for free to community members who meet the conditions until the coins are all given out.

I. Types And Quantity Of The Coins Gifted
The DBC mainnet NFT commemoration coins are divided into three types: gold, silver and bronze coins, with an issuance of 10, 100 and 1,000 coins respectively, each of which has a unique number and will never be issued again. The Foundation plans to finish the gifting of the coins between year 2021 to 2026.

II. Who Can Receive What Coin
Gold coins: mainly given to community partners who have made outstanding contributions.

Silver coins: mainly awarded to community members who are elected as supernodes, important computing power providers, computing power promotion platforms (users), techdevelopers, media partners, etc.
Bronze coins: mainly awarded to offline volunteers, community members who actively promote the project, diehard supporters, the first batch of AIM buyers, etc.

III. Rights Of Commemoration Coin Holders

1. The Foundation will hold a buyback once a year in each January. Each gold coin can be redeemed for 1 million DBC, silver coin for 100,000 DBC and copper coin for 10,000 DBC. The buyback deadline is December 31, 2026.

IV. How To Apply
Community members can propose an application to the Council, and the coin will be distributed after the Council members vote to approve it.
